_In 2008, I applied to grad school for systems engineering. I was working at NRAO at the time, and I continued to work full-time while studying. If you would have told me then that I was "green," I would have been more than mildly offended. I was "on the path" in earnest, and I had a few contributions that I still consider novel today. Two years later, I was decidedly no longer "green." My admissions essay, therefore, serves as a time capsule of the journey._

Five years ago, I had a hard time approaching a conversation on computer engineering, even though I had just begun studying it formally. As if the words "computer" and "engineer" didn't already mean many different things to many different people, the study and application of "computer engineering" is certainly ambiguous to the uninitiated.

To many, the notion of a computer engineer is interchangeable with that of a software programmer (or a "coder"), an "IT guy" (gender a-specific), or even "a geek who will fix my computer." At various times, people have treated me as any or all of the above, but in my bones, I know that computer engineering is so much more than that. As a computer engineer, I've been working to understand software applications from the user down, computer architectures from the electron up, and how to build bridges between the two. This includes software engineering for object-oriented programming, computer operating systems design and architecture, microchip design (called Very Large Scale Integration, VLSI), and process modeling. Computer engineering isn't just software, and it isn't just hardware. It's both and everywhere in-between.

To state it simply: in practice, computer engineering involves building, extending, and maintaining computer hardware and software tools and systems. That seems like a fair definition, but it is missing what matters to me most. That is, I don't like building tools for tools' sake. I'm driven to build tools to help people organize and understand the information around them, and to have the computing tools to help them dominate that information. Restated, I'm driven to build tools to help people manage everyday data and make good decisions with that data.

I'm not only interested in understanding computer systems, but also the systems to which they belong. Instead of looking deeper into computer engineering, I'd like to look broader into systems engineering. However, I have the same difficulty today in approaching a conversation on systems engineering as I once did with computer engineering, where the word "systems" certainly carries a broader meaning than that of "computer."

While I'm still forming my own definition of systems engineering, I'm attracted to UVA's Accelerated Masters Program in Systems Engineering for its blend between engineering and business. What I do know about systems engineering is that it isn't just engineering, and it isn't just business. It's both and everywhere in-between.
